BUILD 18:
OK, Whisper fans, it's the moment you've been waiting for: Whisper can now talk over the internet!!  That's definitely what you will want to try out on this build.  (There are a few other small improvements, but they are not as important.) In the released version on the App Store, whispering over the internet will be a paid feature (because the cloud infrastructure it uses has to be rented), but as my greatly valued testers you can all try it for free!

You will see a new row of buttons for whispering or listening over the internet (look for the network symbol on the buttons). Under the Whisper to internet button you will see a "Share URL" button - that's the URL you need to give to your internet listeners so they can connect - messaging them works well.  (Bluetooth listeners don't need the URL, of course, and yes you are whispering over both Bluetooth and the internet at the same time.) Under the Listen to Internet button you will see a "Retrieve URL" button - that looks for a whisper URL on the clipboard and copies to the app so it can be listened to.

People with the whisper app should not need to do the copy/paste thing in order to listen: just clicking on the URL in a message (or anywhere) should launch the Whisper app and start it listening.  But if you have Chrome as your default browser you might need to copy the URL and then do the paste thing in the Whisper app.

There is a single "Whisper URL" for each device, so once you've shared your device's link with someone else they can always use it to listen to your device.  But of course messaging them again will let them know you're ready to whisper.

Please give it a try and let me know what you think.  Feel free to text me your whisper URL and we can connect.


BUILD 19:
This is a bug-fix build that addresses some of the issues noticed in the first internet-capable build.  Here are the issues that are definitely fixed:

- the one where you had to manually select a whisperer in Bluetooth mode.

- the one where you couldn't share the Whisper URL once you had started to Whisper (now you can share it from the status line).

Here is the big issue that is *maybe, finally fixed*:

- the one where the listener would see ghost past text from prior sessions

Please report ASAP if you are seeing sudden connection drops for what appears to be no reason.

Here is a repeat of the testing instructions for internet-based use:

You will see a new row of buttons for whispering or listening over the internet (look for the network symbol on the buttons). Under the Whisper to internet button you will see a "Share URL" button - that's the URL you need to give to your internet listeners so they can connect - messaging them works well.  (Bluetooth listeners don't need the URL, of course, and yes you are whispering over both Bluetooth and the internet at the same time.) Under the Listen to Internet button you will see a "Retrieve URL" button - that looks for a whisper URL on the clipboard and copies to the app so it can be listened to.

People with the whisper app should not need to do the copy/paste thing in order to listen: just clicking on the URL in a message (or anywhere) should launch the Whisper app and start it listening.  But if you have Chrome as your default browser you might need to copy the URL and then do the paste thing in the Whisper app.

There is a single "Whisper URL" for each device, so once you've shared your device's link with someone else they can always use it to listen to your device.  But of course messaging them again will let them know you're ready to whisper.

BUILD 22:
IMPORTANT NOTE FOR TESTERS: Delete your current build of Whisper before you install this one!!  On MacOS, that means not only deleting the application but also going into your ~/Library/Containers directory and deleting the Whisper item found there.

This is a bug-fix build that addresses the flakiness in internet connectivity noticed on some devices.  In addition, the whisperer and listener views show whether the remote is connected via internet or bluetooth.

Here is a repeat of the testing instructions for internet-based use:

You will see a new row of buttons for whispering or listening over the internet (look for the network symbol on the buttons). Under the Whisper to internet button you will see a "Share URL" button - that's the URL you need to give to your internet listeners so they can connect - messaging them works well.  (Bluetooth listeners don't need the URL, of course, and yes you are whispering over both Bluetooth and the internet at the same time.) Under the Listen to Internet button you will see a "Retrieve URL" button - that looks for a whisper URL on the clipboard and copies to the app so it can be listened to.

People with the whisper app should not need to do the copy/paste thing in order to listen: just clicking on the URL in a message (or anywhere) should launch the Whisper app and start it listening.  But if you have Chrome as your default browser you might need to copy the URL and then do the paste thing in the Whisper app.

There is a single "Whisper URL" for each device, so once you've shared your device's link with someone else they can always use it to listen to your device.  But of course messaging them again will let them know you're ready to whisper.

BUILDS 30 (internal) & 31 (external):
This is a cosmetic improvement and bug fix release:

1. Hopefully it addresses the "nonny is gay" bug.  But I've been wrong about that before :).
2. The buttons accomodate larger-size text on iPhones for us old folks.
3. I'm collecting a bit more diagnostic data to help track down bugs.  This data is never associated with user's identities in any way.
4. Internet listening will more reliably show the name of the whisperer.

BUILDS 32 (internal) & 33 (external):
This build introduces several changes:

1. Listeners don't stop when they disconnect from a whisperer.  Instead they try to reconnect.  So connections are much more stable.
2. When a listener connects to a whisperer, they don't get any of the whisperer's past text, just the current live text (if any).
3. The whisperer can edit all their past text, and can copy and paste it.
4. Listeners cannot edit or copy past text (just like a conversation).
5. Listeners can choose whether they want live text on the top (as it has been) or on the bottom (the way the whisperer sees it).

NOTE: If you get a message when internet whispering about not being able to authenticate, try quitting and restarting the app.  If that doesn't work, delete and then reinstall the app.

BUILD 35 (external):
Another cosmetic improvement and bug fix release:

1. Past text should now scroll correctly (so the most recent line is always visible).

2. For the listener, past text is never selectable (so it can't be copied).

3. For the whisperer, past text is not selectable by default, so accidental clicks don't shift focus to that area.  But the whisperer can explicitly start and end edit sessions over past text, in case they want to copy and paste portions into the live text area.

4. The preferences have been revamped to be more useful and more understandable:

    a. You can no longer set your name in the preferences (because you can do that in the app), but you can now choose not to remember your name from session to session (for use on shared devices).
    b. The app now always starts with the choice screen (no preference for starting as a listener or a whisperer).
    c. The listener can now choose whether they want the live text window on top or bottom of the screen.

5. The whisperer can now change the alert sound while in a session.  Long-pressing the alert button brings up a menu of the available sounds.

6. When there is only one listener, the whisper status text shows their name.

BUILD 36 (external):
This build simplifies the choice screen: there is now just one Whisper button and one Listen button.  The Whisper button always sends whispers both via bluetooth and the internet, but the Listen button only listens via bluetooth. This means the only way to Listen via the internet is to click on a "Listen to ..." link sent from the whisperer, which will start a "listen to internet" session.

BUILD 37 (internal):
This build moves us to three documentation buttons: How To Use, About, and Support.

BUILD 38 (internal):
This build adds a version string to the main screen and updates the app icon.

BUILD 39 (external):
This build improves the documentation and support options:

- There are now How To Use, About, and Support buttons, which display appropriate info in a browser.

- The webpage for the Support button links to a Google Form which allows for reporting bugs to, asking questions of, and providing direct feedback to the development team.

- The bottom of the main screen shows the application version, for use in feedback.

In addition, the app icon has been revamped to use a white dashed line, which is both prettier and more readable than the prior black dashed line.

BUILD 40 (internal):
This build makes preference changes recommended by the docs writer:

- Make the whisper alert sound only changeable from the whisper view.

- Make the in-session controls for reading whispers aloud be the only controls for it, and separate the whisper and listener values so they are remembered separately.

- Reword the bluetooth pairing setting so it's clearer that it is controlled by the Whisperer.

BUILD 41 (internal):
This build makes preference changes recommended by the docs writer:

- Make the whisper alert sound only changeable from the whisper view.

- Make the in-session controls for reading whispers aloud be the only controls for it, and separate the whisper and listener values so they are remembered separately.

- Reword the bluetooth pairing setting so it's clearer that it is controlled by the Whisperer.

This build also drops the background app refresh capability, which is not needed.